## This is an introduction of module biosys
### introduction
The `biosys` module is a collection of linux system-related operations. The aim
of this module is to simplify the command of those operations for users.

### import the package
```doctest
In [1]: from biosut import biosys as bs
```

### function list
`is_executable`: check whether input program(s) are executable. Exit if the program is not in system path (which means this program is not executable).
`is_executable(*programs)`
```doctest
In [2]: bs.is_executable('samtools') # check if samtools is executable
ERROR    | biosut.biosys:is_executable:31 - Program * samtools * is not found
```

`exe_cmd`: execute the input command, return `result` and `error` information.
`exe_cmd(CMD, shell=True)`
```doctest
In [3]: cmd = 'ls -alh /usr/bin'
In [4]: bs.exe_cmd(cmd, shell=True) # list all dirs and files under /usr/bin/
```

`check_path_exist`: check if path (s) exist or not, exit if path is not exist. 
The parameter `check_empty=True` will check if directories are empty or not.
Empty directory encountered will make the program automatically exit.
```doctest
bs.check_path_exist('/usr/bin', '/home', check_empty=False)
```

`sure_path_exist`: check if path (s) exist or not, path will be created if the
input path is not exists.
```doctest
bs.sure_path_exist('/usr/bin/test/jie')
```

`real_path`: return the real path of the input path.
```doctest
bs.real_path('../test')

'/path/to/../test'
```

`find_db`: find the database path of a provided database variable.
```doctest
bs.find_db('KEGG')

'/path/to/your/KEGG/database'
```

`check_file_exist`: check if file (s) exist or not, program will exit if one of
the file is not exist.
```doctest
bs.check_file_exist('test.fa')
```

`remove_suffix`: get prefix of file, cut by symbol `.`
result = bs.remove_suffix('test.fa')
result = 'test'

`get_file_path`: get absolute path of input file (s) and return.
```doctest
bs.get_file_path('/Users/jie/cookiejar.txt')
'/Users/jie/cookiejar'
```

`open_file`: open an input file and return a file handle.
```doctest
fh = bs.open_file('/Users/jie/cookiejar.txt')
```

`find_file`: find files in a specified directory with specified suffix.
```buildoutcfg

```

`parse_json`: parse json file. Return a parsed string but formatted like dataframe.
```doctest

```